
# [My first POLFED run (POLFED for dummies)](@id My_first_POLFED_run)
Once you have installed Polfed.jl (see the [Installation](0.Home.md#installation)), you are ready to get started and to eventually run your first polfed simulation. First let us load the necessary depandencies
```julia
using Polfed
using SparseArrays
using LinearAlgebra
using BenchmarkTools



```
## Defining the problem and constructing the matrix
In this tutorial, we will guide you through the basic steps of setting up and running a POLFED calculation using a simple example, the XXZ spin chain model with periodic boundary conditions.
```math
H = \sum_{i=1}^{L} \left( S_i^x S_{i+1}^x + S_i^y S_{i+1}^y + \Delta S_i^z S_{i+1}^z \right)
```
Here ``L`` is the length of the chain, ``\Delta`` is the anisotropy parameter, and ``S_i^{\alpha}`` are the spin operators at site ``i``. The simplest (though usually not the most efficient) way of calling the POLFED method is by constructing a matrix and passing it as an argument. Let us first write a function to construct the Hamiltonian matrix of the XXZ model:
```julia
function construct_XXZ_matrix(L::Int, Δ::Real, Nup::Int)
    basis = [b for b in 0:2^L-1 if count_ones(b) == Nup] # generate basis
    dim = length(basis)
    bmap = Dict(b => i for (i, b) in enumerate(basis))  # state index map
    rows, cols, vals = Int[], Int[], Float64[]
    for (col, state) in enumerate(basis)
        for i in 1:L
            j = i % L + 1  # PBC
            si = (state >> (i - 1)) & 1
            sj = (state >> (j - 1)) & 1
            SzSz = (0.5 - si) * (0.5 - sj) 
            push!(rows, col); push!(cols, col); push!(vals, Δ * SzSz)
            if si != sj
                flipped = state ⊻ (1 << (i - 1)) ⊻ (1 << (j - 1))
                if haskey(bmap, flipped) 
                    push!(rows, bmap[flipped]); push!(cols, col); push!(vals, 0.5)
                end
            end
        end
    end
    return sparse(rows, cols, vals, dim, dim)
end
```
Now that we have a function for constructing the matrix, we are ready to call the `polfed` function for the first time. 
```julia


```
## Running POLFED (Lanczos factorization)
In addition to the matrix, the algorithm also requires the targeted energy, the number of requested eigenvalues, and an initial vector `v0` (important: `v0` must always be normalized).
```julia
L = 14; Nup = L÷2; Δ = 1.0
mat = construct_XXZ_matrix(L, Δ, Nup)
target = 0.0; howmany = 100
v0 = rand(size(mat,1)); v0 ./= norm(v0)

vals, vecs = @time polfed(mat, v0, howmany, target)

```
To better understand what happens during the run, one can enable the reporting option by setting the corresponding keyword argument to `true`. The report provides detailed information, starting with the spectral transformation (targeted rescaled energy, rescaled interval, polynomial order and safety factor, number of matrix multiplications, etc.). The factorization report then describes the Lanczos run, including convergence criteria, tolerance, number of iterations, and additional parameters. Finally, timing information is included to show how much time is spent in different parts of the algorithm.
```julia
vals, vecs, report = polfed(mat, v0, howmany, target; produce_report=true)
display_report(report)
```
The reporting system [`display_report`](@ref) is flexible, you can include or exclude parts of the report (e.g., convergence details, benchmarks) using appropriate keyword arguments, one can also disable colored text if you are printing into the `.text` file.
```julia






```
## Block Lanczos factorization
This implementation of POLFED/Lanczos does not only provide the standard Lanczos factorization (which suffers from poor parallelization in mapping), but also supports Block Lanczos factorization (also known as the multiple right-hand sides Lanczos method). To use Block Lanczos, simply set the initial Krylov vector `v0` to a matrix. The block size is then automatically set to the number of columns.
```julia
v0_ = rand(size(mat,1), 4); v0 = Matrix(qr(v0_).Q)

vals, vecs, report = polfed(mat, v0, howmany, target; produce_report=true)
display_report(report)
```
With the QR decomposition we ensure that the input vectors are mutually orthonormal. The report shows that block Lanczos factorization with block size $4$ was used, and a clear speedup is obtained. Importantly, this speedup does not arise because block Lanczos is inherently more efficient—in fact, it is typically less efficient than regular Lanczos. The improvement comes from better parallelization of the spectral transformation (matrix-vector or matrix-matrix multiplication). In this example, the parallelization strategy `MulColsParallel` was used, where each thread maps one vector of the block. Setting the block size equal to the number of threads is advantageous (here, $4$ threads were used). Parallelization of the mapping is an important aspect and will be discussed in section REF.
```julia

```
For new users, we recommend experimenting with the input parameters to see how they affect runtime, polynomial order, convergence, and other characteristics.
```julia




```
## Factorization comparison
As we have seen above, we have two different factorization methods available: standard Lanczos and Block Lanczos. While the first is (number of FLOPs wise) more efficient and faster convergence it suffers from poor parallelization in mapping. The latter is less efficient and converges slower, but it allows for better parallelization of the mapping operation. Regular Lanczos factorization is usually faster for smaller system sizes (up to hilbert space dimension $D \approx 15000$), while Block Lanczos becomes advantageous for larger systems, where time (and memory requirements) becomes crucial. 

